I think that it is not a secret for many of us.
We can be satisfied with those who lead us, or not.
We can be sure that we would lead better.
But unfortunately, we are in a situation where it is difficult for us to choose a hierarchy of subordination.
It already exists in the organization.
And we, entering this organization, are forced to accept this hierarchy.
However, it can be accepted in different ways.
It can be accepted harshly, to do only this and not a step to the side.
Or, as for the same hierarchy that exists in the organization, it gives us a certain corridor.
And in this corridor of possibilities, we can choose what suits us and what does not.
If we are not satisfied with the corridor of possibilities, then let's look for another company.
But the bigger the corridor that the company gives us, the more a person understands that this company has an opportunity for his individual development.
And accordingly, he will value his work in this company, because it gives him the opportunity to develop.
And not only to exploit him to get certain results.
And accordingly, he will be interested in increasing the output.
The same applies to the bureaucratic organization of work.
I think many of us have come across the fact that in order to get a visa on a document,
you have to wait until this visa passes the appropriate stage of approval.
Time goes by, opportunities are lost.
And very often any of us criticizes this non-turning liberal machine that exists in this organization,
because of which we miss benefits, because of which we miss those or other prerogatives and dividends on the market, and so on.
Unfortunately, here you have to choose a balance.
Any organization is a structure, and structures are impossible without bureaucracy.
But again, bureaucracy can be different.
It can be tough, it can be flexible.
And accordingly, depending on what kind of bureaucratic structure exists in the organization,
there are certain opportunities for the existence and implementation of human factors within this organization.
And accordingly, if the system...
And the bureaucratic system is not a candidate, it is not a child's play.
We all live in a state.
Any society is a certain bureaucratic system.
We have to obey it because we live in this society.
But if we find a system that does not burden us very much,
we will be more interested in staying in this organization, developing in this organization,
simply because this organization gives us more opportunities for our development
and provides less obstacles for our functioning.
The next element of the doctrine of human relations, which was proposed by me,
concerns management.
The fact is that according to the classical model, there was a strict hierarchy.
If I am the boss, you must do what I tell you, and I don't care if you like it or not.
We drew attention to the fact that managers should still focus on satisfying the needs of people.
Yes, the manager's final task is to achieve maximum productivity.
But if I constantly demonstrate and emphasize this task,
that I don't care about you as a person, I care about your work,
and if you have something wrong, I will always find you a replacement,
well, accordingly, there will be a relationship.
I will not be interested in working in this company.
I will naturally look for another company where there are some different relations.
The same thing, that's what I was talking about.
From the fact that you are the boss, that you have more experience,
it is not necessary to take into account the needs of your employees.
If in the classical model the main attention of the manager is focused on technical factors,
such as the performance of the machine, the weight of the machine, the lighting of the machine,
the number of parts in this machine, the number of blanks,
then this factor should still be taken into account.
What does an employee need to work effectively?
Salary, vacation, additional food, longer breaks for rest.
That is, any person has certain needs,
a person can get tired, and he wants to satisfy these needs.
We work to be able to satisfy the needs we have.
If the manager will pay attention,
including to the subjective needs of the person,
then the employee who will stop feeling like a slave to the machine
will be interested in thanking such a manager.
This will be manifested in the increase in productivity,
maximization of profits,
in the end, he will have more interest in work,
and therefore he will do less marriage.
That is, it is necessary...
Maillot's formula is very simple.
The manager should not forget that he is in charge of people, not machines.
Now this phrase is obvious, but in the days of Maillot,
this was the time of the Great Depression, we will remember it,
that is, the time of the global economic collapse,
it was a fundamentally new idea and a fundamentally new approach.
At the same time, Maillot paid attention to the impact of material stimulation.
As we remember, in the classical model,
material stimulation played a major role,
but Maillot noticed that in this case,
individual reward should be supported by group, collective reward.
That is, if I work well,
then, accordingly, the productivity of not only me,
but also the productivity of the group in which I work increases,
and, therefore, there should be a support for group behavior.
Here again, the ratio of group and individual.
At the same time, Maillot paid attention to non-material stimulation.
We remember that as for Taylor, he just noticed that in addition to material stimulation,
there is also a social aspect that plays an important role in human behavior.
As for Maillot and his doctrine of human relations,
he directly states that material or economic stimuli should be supported by social and psychological.
It is Maillot who introduces such a term as a favorable moral climate of the collective,
or a psychological climate in the collective that exists.
It is it that emphasizes that the presence of this favorable psychological climate
will significantly contribute to the growth of labor productivity.
Remember those girls he experimented with,
and whom he forced to work almost in the dark,
and the productivity of the labor did not fall below the productivity of those girls who worked in normal conditions.
In addition to the psychological climate, the satisfaction of labor was of great importance.
Today we know all this from the theory of Herzberg and the theory of motivations,
which exist and are used in modern management.
But all this is based on the experiments conducted by Maillot,
and which found their reflection in his doctrine of human relations.
Moreover, Maillot drew attention to the fact that
the productivity of labor depends on the style of management that exists in the company.
And the authoritarian style of management will, of course,
lead to a certain limit to the growth of labor productivity.
But this will be a phenomenon of working from under the stick.
As soon as the worker feels that this stick has weakened,
he will immediately try to get away from work.
And Maillot has repeatedly proved this with his experiments.
If there is another, more democratic style of management,
when the worker understands, believes that something depends on his opinion,
no matter how much it is in fact, the main thing is that the worker believes so.
This is already a management function,
which is discussed and analyzed in the management theory.
Then the worker will be interested in the manifestation of initiative,
will be interested in the fact that the results and actions that he performs
will help to increase the productivity of labor,
so that he gets a certificate, gets praise,
so that he, no matter how it sounds, but Maillot, pays attention to this.
Let's hang it on the board of honor.
Maillot was one of those who proposed to hang photos of front-line workers.
So the board of honor also rises to the experiments of Maillot.
These are, in principle, the main ideas of the doctrine of human relations,
the main ideas of the human factor that we proposed.
The Khatun experiment and the whole sphere of discovery of patterns associated with it
represented the second stage of the development of the theory of organizational behavior.
These are the 20s and 40s.
Accordingly, what concerns this doctrine of human relations,
here attention was focused on the human as such.
Don't just think that the following extreme happened here.
That is, if before, in the classics, they were engaged only in objective production,
now they spit on production and began to engage in human.
Of course not.
As for business, a good, healthy business never throws itself into the extreme.
Naturally, if a person does not have enough means of production,
does not have the necessary equipment, he will not be able to produce something.
But the same machines can be made more convenient for work.
For example, a person could not stand on it, bending over,
but could be in a comfortable position with a normal degree of displacement.
And accordingly, there was also a focus on the fact that,
as we said in the same classics,
the enterprise is the work of a group.
And accordingly, everything that concerns machines, equipment,
it should have been satisfactory for one or another brigade.
The task was to find out which groups the labor collectives were divided into.
Large groups, small groups, medium groups.
Because now, in addition to these objective characteristics,
a very important value has become given to informal relations.
Informal relations that may not even concern work.
It may be informal relations that after work,
we will go together to engage in some cultural events.
And accordingly, we are interested in doing the work faster,
to do it more successfully.
Because if we do it badly,
a disassembly will begin, where some mistakes have been completed.
Reprocessing may begin,
we may be forced to fix a marriage,
and so there will be less time for communication.
Again, as for the second stage of the theory of organizational behavior,
more attention was paid to the style of management of the race and the theory of motivation.
Once we introduce a person into production,
then a person, as a living being, has its own motives,
its own desires, its own needs,
and these desires must be satisfied.
A person works, and this is obvious, not to make the owner rich.
A person works to find his place in life,
to achieve any results that he has.
If work allows him to significantly satisfy his desires,
his needs, then I will stick to this work.
If my work only makes me drink juices,
then I will look for another job that, let's say, will see a person in me.
Again, this stage, the second stage of the theory of organization,
was associated with the fact that the management system has changed.
The idea of delegating powers has emerged.
Let's recall the classic.
In the classic, the manager clearly says what, when, where, what to do.
Now, in the non-classical stage of the doctrine of human relations,
more attention has been paid to delegating powers.
Okay, I have a general picture.
In this picture, you must do this and that.
I am delegating powers to you on the issue of releasing the elements you need.
I am taking the initiative.
But at the end of the day, there should be a certain number of products.
How will you get them?
I will not control you.
I will not stand behind you to check.
But I will control the final result.
Thus, a great deal of attention was paid to the satisfaction of the individual,
to the formation of his social needs, social stability.
And perhaps a very important achievement of this second stage
was the emergence of non-material stimulation.
At that time, the terms like
interdependent management,
humanization of labor,
implementation of certain group decisions,
education of the employees,
what is now called training and development of the staff,
evaluation of motivation,
all this takes the lead in these Khatun experiments.
In the first place, in one way or another,
a person is promoted as a necessary element,
a necessary link of the functioning of the organization.
And organizational behavior
now becomes not just a behavior of servicing machines,
it becomes the behavior of living people,
who in the process of industrial production
interact with a particular technique.
And then the method of optimization of work with the technique is considered.
How to achieve less fatigue,
how to make the right breaks, and so on.
This whole situation is connected with the second stage of organizational behavior.
The first stage of organizational behavior
was actually the stage before the beginning of the Second World War.
It should be said that the beginning of the Second World War,
no matter how strange it may sound,
was a significant impact on organizational research.
And, of course, it was largely connected with military needs.
What is war?
War is always the mobilization of a large number of people.
Mobilization implies that a large number of non-military people come,
who need to be taught very quickly
to use one or another military technique,
to use one or another weapon,
and, of course, to teach people to achieve victories,
to kill them less.
As for the Second World War,
this task arose in millions of people.
And the task was very simple.
People came who had little desire to fight.
They have completely different professions.
They have families, children, and in the end they all want to live.
And, of course, this is the main motive
that makes these people master the relevant specialties and military professions as quickly as possible.
The problem was education.
And as for the third stage of organizational behavior,
it is connected with the problem of education.
The military actions that followed the Second World War
were precisely the need to train military non-professionals in military actions.
It is now that the education structure is beginning to develop.
And more and more time, more and more attention
is being paid to what was previously called re-training.
And this re-training had to be put in pretty tough frames.
It is during this period that a large number of psychological professional tests are being formed,
which now use the theory of organizational behavior with great pleasure.
It was necessary to understand the psychological stability of people,
their temperament, their character, their scrupulousness, their pedanticism,
their ability to work in stressful situations.
To do this, it was necessary to sort out a large number of newcomers who come to you.
And depending on their psychological properties,
depending on their personality characteristics,
that's what we were talking about,
to distribute them among the ranks of the troops,
to determine their type of occupation in a very large structure of military interactions.
In the first place, in this case, of course, psychology stood out.
And a huge number of tests, which we use now,
were created in the 1940s.
Psychological skills tests, professional readiness tests,
professional adaptability tests, various differential surveyors,
they are created at that time.
Organizational behavior researchers realized what a powerful tool they had in their hands.
The war was over, and, as they say, thank God.
But now there are a lot of developments,
the development of scientific material,
which can be used, including in peaceful life.
Moreover, these tests were valid, they were justified,
they were reliable, reproducible,
and the main thing is that these tests were conducted on a large number of people.
That is, these tests were approved, were standardized,
and now I can apply them.
This period is characterized by the fact
that psychology begins to penetrate very strongly into organizational behavior.
Well, of course, from the point of view of logic, everything is fine here.
Mayot introduces human relations into the classic model of Taylor.
Moreover, his human...
Mayot still went from a psychological point of view,
but he was engaged in a more social psychology,
and again, he gave general recommendations,
that's what we listed.
And now we need specifics.
The times of peace have come.
The period of the restoration of the industrial economy begins again.
New equipment, new equipment appears.
The product of double purpose appears.
Many military apparatus and mechanisms begin to be used in peaceful life.
And, accordingly, now you can already identify more specific competencies,
more specific abilities of people who are needed.
What qualities should the dispatcher of civil aviation have?
What qualities should the dispatcher of numerical program management machines have,
which also arise at about this time?
What qualities should a person have in order to be able to work with a large amount of information?
How to ensure and achieve that a person is able to concentrate and switch attention from one detail to another,
from one aspect of the functioning of the machine to another?
After all, the technique becomes more complicated, a computational technique arises,
more and more complex equipment appears, where the price of error is already great.
If the cost of the machine increases at once,
then, accordingly, if it breaks, the price of error increases.
At the same time, another problem arises.
If before, it was quite easy to train a worker to work with a machine,
it did not take much time, the machines were simple,
now the technique presents to people, to the service staff, more and more strict requirements.
The demand for education increases, the demand for retraining of people increases.
You could work on one machine, they had one requirement.
Now the machines have been replaced, not you went to another job.
Due to the fact that new equipment is beginning to appear faster and faster,
the machines change every 3-5 years.
Accordingly, if this machine comes to the same factory,
then why do you need to fire a person who already worked on an old machine?
The old machine exhausted itself, and you removed it from the factory.
Now you need to train a new worker to work on the previous machines.
How to achieve processes? How to optimize this process?
As for the post-war period, this stage was significantly related to the problems of training and development of the staff,
with the widespread implementation of testing of the staff,
and the ability to switch people's needs to new tasks.
The tasks are gradually beginning to change.
Not yet very quickly, but they are beginning to change.
Accordingly, the requirements that are presented to you as a worker at the factory are changing.
At the same time, the problem of assessing the staff begins to form again.
What is the role of the staff in the development of the factory?
If we look at the development of the theory of organizational behavior in the post-war period,
this stage continues even now.
The main tasks were laid down back then.
I repeat, this is training and development of the staff,
assessment and motivation of the staff.
The fact that now human resources are included in the management area.
But the structure of the organization itself has changed.
Indeed, let's summarize what is understood today under the organization.
Because when we talk about organizational behavior, it naturally revolves around one or another organization.
There are a lot of models.
Again, let's not get into different nuances, this is a separate topic.
But the main thing in an organization, looking at this slide,
is that any organization naturally consists of specific people.
These are the individuals who make up its core.
Modern organizations are such that people do not work alone, they always work in groups.
And each group is responsible for something of their own.
There is a finance department, an accounting department,
an agreement making department, an administrative department,
an HR department, and so on.
That is, there are specific functional groups that need to be done.
Therefore, individuals are grouped into groups that solve one or another functional task.
And from these functional groups, an organization is formed as such.
Of course, groups and tasks of IT organizations are the same as those of production organizations.
An organization that provides services has its own structure and tasks.
But as for organizations, they also do not exist in a vacuum.
All organizations exist in a certain external environment, in a certain society.
Other organizations, state institutions, controlling bodies, tax authorities, and so on.
And, accordingly, all these four spheres, they concern any organization.
Therefore, all people included in the organization,
are included in addition to the group that is in the organization,
and as part of the organization, they are included in the external social structure.
This is a very important element, because it makes no sense to argue and talk about an organization as such.
There are no autonomous organizations,
because all organizations are always in direct interaction and contact with other people.
No organization can never produce everything it needs.
After all, its production is the production for other organizations.
Otherwise, it will simply lose the meaning of business.
Why is this organization model important to us?
It is important to us because it highlights four main elements that each organization has.
And accordingly, organizational behavior, if it is interested in describing reality,
if it is an abstract discipline, it should take into account the behavior of all these four elements.
And, of course, if we consider the modern theory of organizational behavior,
then it can be described in the following way, which we see on this slide.
In each organization there is a certain hierarchy, which we have already discussed.
Today, it has become customary to talk not so much about the hierarchy of subordination,
but about the hierarchy of leadership.
Every organization has some leading positions, leading representatives.
Depending on how well you cope with your position,
depending on what authority you use,
there is an authority of either a position or a personality.
The authority of the position is assigned to you by the boss, so everyone must obey you.
Let's recall the classic, it's Taylor-Foyle.
Regardless of your level of competence.
And yet, at the current stage of the organization's development,
this leadership is replaced by the leadership of a personality.
Yes, indeed, a person is a leader, but he has certain personal qualities
that allow you to really be a leader and use authority.
If you use authority, then, accordingly, you give someone else's command.
If an employee does not understand something, but he knows that you are competent in your field,
then, of course, he will do as he is told in order to gain experience
and then understand what the meaning was, what were the functions and tasks of the instruction he received.
In the end, a leader keeps in front of him the whole picture,
which a line leader or even a middle-level leader does not have.
In this regard, leadership is closely related to learning.
It is no wonder that we said that one of the very important aspects of organizational behavior in the post-war period,
and in our time, is the organization of learning, development, assessment and motivation.
If we are in a company, and if we came to this company not only to get a salary and then go somewhere,
if we link our career growth, our career development with this company,
we learn, we learn the necessary competencies, we learn the necessary relationships.
After all, very often we learn something by observing people, interaction of people, interaction of leaders,
we try to imitate them, we try to be like those leaders who we like,
and, accordingly, adopt their behavior styles, styles of reaction, styles of solving problems,
their communication, their perception, their level of interaction.
In addition, as we said, any organization is a group of people,
therefore, a group dynamics becomes very important.
Very often my success in the organization depends on the relations I have with the employees I interact with.
If I have good cooperative relations, then I can always count on being told what to do,
I will be protected from possible mistakes that I can make, I will be helped.
If there are relations of competition, and, accordingly, everyone strives to achieve results at the expense of another,
then internal conflicts, internal conflicts, negative internal relations arise,
which, of course, leads to what is called a terrarium of like-minded people.
We have little desire to be in such an organization, and no matter how interesting this organization is,
no matter how interesting it is, I work with living people.
And if this psychological atmosphere is unbearable for me, I will still look for another organization, no matter how interesting it is.
Again, when we talk about organizational behavior,
it is important to understand what kind of attitudes people have when they join this organization,
what kind of relations people build, what they want to achieve, what their goals are, what their motivation level is,
how the motivation level is set, how the level of achievement is achieved, how the level of compulsion is achieved,
whether there is ambition, how ambitious my behavior can be.
If I come out with different initiatives, how will they evaluate me?
Will these initiatives be accepted or rejected?
Will I get encouragement, or, on the contrary, will I be considered a jump and I will be in a social vacuum?
How is the decision-making in this organization carried out?
As for the management style, does it depend on me?
Either I received a clear order that is no longer subject to change, not subject to discussion,
or I get a decision that I can discuss and make changes to.
Again, it is psychology.
Who is a good manager?
It is the person in whose office you come in with your opinion, and you come out with the opinion of the manager.
Moreover, you come out not because you were ordered, but because the manager really justified his position.
This is a very important situation for decision-making, because it is a person's attitude that reigns in the organization.
If you know that your initiative will be welcomed, that you will not be put on the spot,
and, accordingly, some of your proposals will be accepted and it will be emphasized that you took part in it,
then purely human qualities of such an organization, which exists with such an organization,
will be more acceptable to you and you will be pleased to go to work, you will not be afraid to make a mistake,
simply because only the one who does nothing makes mistakes.
All decisions are made in a normal working environment, and decisions are justified, proven, and agreed upon.
Any organization today, as in any human behavior, is always associated with stress.
There are plans that need to be fulfilled, there are tasks that need to be solved,
and 24 hours a day, and only 8 hours of working time, and we must, accordingly, have time to work,
and, remember, we talked about this, work is no more than a third of life, we must still have time to live our own life.
Therefore, organizational behavior is directly associated with stress.
We make mistakes, we fail, we succeed, we fail.
Nevertheless, no one takes away from me the responsibility to implement and perform certain functions.
And a person is constantly in stress.
In principle, a low level of stress is a perfectly normal situation associated with human activity.
Stress is always what arises in the condition of a lack of information.
When we work, we always have a certain lack of information.
We do not know what order will come today.
We do not know what assessment will be received by the actions we have taken.
And in this regard, work is always stress.
But this stress can keep us in tune and give us an opportunity for career growth, for further development,
or it can be the stress that leads to our complete destabilization,
to complete lack of understanding, inability to find your place in this work,
leads to diseases, and so on.
Accordingly, stress should be optimal.
This is also very important from the point of view of organizational behavior.
Where are those boundaries that lead to the optimal functioning of a person?
Any organization is always a conflict.
Each person has his own desires, has his own tasks.
And everyone wants to fulfill certain tasks.
At the same time, the number of resources we have is limited.
In the end, we need to get to the boss's reception.
The sooner we get to him, the sooner we can start to fulfill the task that is before us.
Again, disputes may arise.
Who will come to the first boss?
Who took the turn?
Who found one or another way to approach the boss?
A conflict is a perfectly normal situation.
Because a conflict always arises in the conditions of the limitation of the resources we have.
Organization is always a limitation of resources.
At least a resource of time.
We can be overwhelmed with more and more tasks,
and we do not have time to fulfill them.
And we do not fulfill them because we do not want to, we do not know how to, we cannot,
or because we simply did not have enough time.
We try to decide when to do a task.
And, of course, an unfulfilled task leads to a conflict with the person for whom we had to fulfill it.
When we are in communication, when we are in an organization, when we are with people,
the communication aspect is very important.
How do we interact?
How can we and how quickly can we get the information we need?
Is it desirable to be given this information?
Or do we consciously not get anything in order to say later that we did not fulfill a task
that shows my incompetence?
Again, it is pointless to highlight some aspect here.
All these aspects are interconnected.
They are all tied to each other.
And, accordingly, the communication that exists in an organization
is directly connected with the psychological climate that exists in it.
Again, how are teams implemented?
How is the delegation of powers carried out?
Or is this delegation not carried out?
How is the delegation of responsibility carried out?
Do I only answer for my part,
or am I responsible for the success of the implementation of the entire group in which I am?
And how much responsibility will I bear for the non-fulfillment and non-fulfillment of certain functions?
And, again, if we talked about the fact that any organization is immersed in the external environment,
then the problem area of organizational behavior is the power and politics
among which the organization is implemented.
Indeed, if there is assistance in the development of small, medium, large businesses,
this is one thing.
If there is a counteraction, if one or another social opinion, social attitude
negatively evaluates the work in business, work in business structures, this is another thing.
We all live, as I have already said, among other people.
And therefore, it is important for us not only those relationships, or not only that opinion,
not only those assessments that I am given within the organization where I am,
but also assessments of other people who are significant to me,
assessments of relatives, assessments of people who use a particular authority for me.
This is exactly the area that covers the external sphere of the organization's activities.
Again, as we can see, the field of modern organizational behavior is quite broad and extensive,
and it concerns all aspects of human organization's activities.
Therefore, today we can say that a new paradigm of organizational behavior is being formed.
Or rather, it has already been formed.
If we had a classic paradigm of Taylor-Fayol, a paradigm of human relations,
the paradigm of human relations of Myo,
then today there is a new paradigm of organizational behavior,
which takes into account all the changes that have taken place in organizations,
in the social structure, in the world.
As for these changes, it is worth noting that the modern organization
gradually moves away from rigid hierarchical structures
and gradually moves to network or matrix structures.
When a working group is created to solve a particular task,
or certain connections and interactions between different departments of the organization
to solve a particular task,
and this is a temporary group that is created to solve the task that is now being solved.
After this task is solved, the group will disintegrate,
and we will create a new group, and so on.
This does not mean that we will lose our work.
It just means that the pre-determination that existed in the 80s of the last century has now disappeared.
Now, if we want to meet the standards that the market presents to us,
we must be able to react quickly to certain external tasks.
The next point is related to the fact that now the knowledge carriers are gaining more and more importance.
If a person had studied something before and could work at this machine all his life,
or had studied a little, but still performed the same types of activities,
now the situation has changed.
A modern workplace, a modern organization,
determines more and more requirements for its employees.
They must be able to respond to the changes that are presented,
and, accordingly, be able to react to all new innovations.
Today, on average, once every five years,
it is necessary to increase the level of qualification.
Today, more and more people are studying for the MBA.
You yourself spend your time to acquire new knowledge
that will allow you to be more successful in your management activities, in your business.
The next important change that has taken place in modern organizations
is that if before, the main thing was the vertical division of labor
from the hierarchy of subordinates, the boss, subordinate, and so on,
now the horizontal division of labor is becoming more and more important.
These network structures, these models of the matrix organization
that exist now, are provided by the horizontal division of labor.
Those or other groups are more successful in solving one or another problem.
Therefore, the time of other groups should be spent on solving other problems,
which, in general, will contribute to the solution of the problems that are in front of the organization.
And this does not mean that you are worse at something or that you are doing something.
Or that group is more elite or it uses more authority and respect of the management.
No, it's just that to solve these problems,
competencies of the races and informal relationships that exist in this group are more successful than in another.
This does not mean that your group is worse.
This means that other problems will arise that will be more successfully solved by your group.
The horizontal division of labor is now becoming more and more important,
which is due to the emergence of new forms of business, virtual business organizations, IT organizations.
And we'll talk about it a little later.
It should be noted that in modern organizations, as has already been said, the content itself changes.
Now, in order to be a successful businessman, constant training is necessary.
This feedback is necessary.
The requirements for the organization are increasing.
The approaches that are given are constantly changing.
And if you want to move forward with time, if you want to be successful,
if you don't want to give your competitors the opportunity to outrun you, you have to learn.
Moreover, this training should not be considered as if I don't know something or I'm stupider than someone.
Knowledge is produced very quickly now.
Work constantly receives new content, new content.
If before the new amount of knowledge was obtained somewhere in a century,
now, every decade, the amount of knowledge increases almost double.
Moreover, now there is a tendency to reduce this time by doubling the amount of knowledge.
This became particularly noticeable at the end of the 20th century,
just at the time when we are living now.
Because now there is a geometric growth of all new knowledge.
And therefore, all the knowledge that we received at the institute is correct,
this is good knowledge.
But this is the knowledge that we received 10, 15, 20 years ago.
Today, new additions, new changes have occurred.
Why do we come to the same MBA course?
After all, in fact, we consider what Taylor, Fayol considered.
But on the other hand, this is the necessary base that we should know in the first place
in order to be able to perceive new changes later.
After all, look, the very same theory of organizational behavior has changed in almost 100 years.
And what Taylor worked with is not what we work with today.
Although, on the other hand, in order to understand modern trends,
modern needs, modern opportunities,
we need to know the ideas of Taylor, Fayol, Mayer, Liesbegger.
Simply because they are all in demand today.
Just in different volumes.
In addition, it should be noted that if before, in the first half of the 20th century,
there was a great importance of physical labor,
then at the end of the 20th century and in our time, in the 21st century,
more and more intellectual activities are growing.
Indeed, if now no more than 5% of the US agricultural population feeds almost the entire world,
and gradually the population is moving to cities,
then this indicates that the order of intellectual activities is growing more and more.
If we want to deal with the IT sphere,
if we want to deal with the management, management, organization, telecommunications,
then a large amount of knowledge is required here,
which is necessary in order to simply use the equipment that surrounds us.
At the same time, the number of routine work is decreasing.
It should decrease, let's say, gently.
Well, in the West, it naturally decreases.
If before it was clear that the volume that we had to do,
print on a machine, calculate,
now, with the help of computers,
which took months and years,
it takes hours and minutes.
Naturally, working time is freed up
so that a person can accept his intellectual qualities,
his intellectual achievements,
so that a person can solve those or other tasks
that are before him as before the worker of the organization,
who must get a certain result at the end.
And finally, if we analyze the existing business,
we can note that now there has been a shift
from the production of products to the provision of services.
As for production,
it is already given to a significant extent,
automated.
And now, if you look at different types of production companies,
they have a huge number of automation,
a huge number of computers.
And as for a person,
a person already performs the function of controlling the activity of machines.
That is, the very control where, perhaps,
those classical ideas are applicable,
as Taylor said at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century.
Only now there is no longer any resentment,
because a person controls the functioning of a machine.
And it depends on how he controls it,
how the program will be written,
when the failure that occurs in the program will be noticed in time.
From here, the functioning of the entire production,
the entire enterprise, the entire factory depends on a significant extent.
All of us, after all, know what one small mistake of one aviation dispatcher
can lead to.
After all, although this is no longer production,
but nevertheless, this is a typical function of modern production.
At present, with the development of the industry,
a person has more and more opportunities to satisfy his needs,
and the service industry is developing.
Accordingly, the service industry requires new approaches, new tasks,
which are significantly different from everything that was typical for the 20th century.
And this is due to the emergence of new tendencies in organizational behavior.
At present, to solve this entire complex of tasks,
it is necessary to significantly change the approaches that have traditionally developed in business
and which have been reorganized in the industry.
Today we can say that in a significant way the future belongs to those organizations
that have such an important quality as self-education.
Senge has introduced a special term for self-educating organizations.
The task here is that only if the organization is able to react quickly
to the changes that are taking place,
it has the opportunity to gain an advantage in the competitive struggle in the modern market.
If the organization is striving to rest on the laurels already achieved,
it will be quickly bypassed,
and this organization will quickly become one of the leaders in the market.
We can see a large number of examples of this in our everyday activities.
Let's take, for example, the photo carriers.
Previously, we used to shoot on photo films,
and there was a whole industry of printing on these photo films.
Today we are increasingly switching to electronic carriers,
and now it is even difficult to find a place where you can be shown on photo films.
Now there are different methods and approaches to printing.
These results have occurred in less than 15 years.
These are very short periods for the industries and the industrial structures that exist.
In this regard, it is important to note that the theory of organizational behavior
today has the task of requiring a rapid response to the constant change in the market,
to the constant innovation, to various risky events.
This is largely due to the emergence of venture companies,
when it is not known what result will be achieved by one or another idea.
But we invest in them.
Will these funds be repaid?
They can be repaid in installments, they can not be repaid.
This is why there is a need for multi-profile companies
that cover different sectors of the market.
Thanks to those sectors that are in demand now,
we can invest funds in applied research,
in the release of some new products that can conquer the market,
or maybe not conquer the market.
These are all the needs and tasks that the theory of organizational behavior is designed to solve.
What are the applications of the theory of organizational behavior?
The next question we will consider is the application of the theory of organizational behavior.
The fact is that we can talk about different concepts, different tasks,
but this will be interesting for the scientific approach.
If we talk about business, that is, about the situation when I invest funds and I have to get a return,
then business is a very specific area.
And, let's say, general theoretical approaches are not in the report.
And if the theory of organizational behavior claims to be pragmatic,
to meet the realities and requirements of the modern market,
it must solve specific tasks that are in front of it.
We will now talk about the whole set of these tasks.
So, based on the tasks of the theory of organizational behavior that we talked about,
what problems are most relevant for specialists?
What problems do they solve?
And why is the theory of organizational behavior so important for the activities of one or another organization today
that its study and analysis is given a lot of attention?
I would just like to highlight the main areas that exist today.
It does not mean that there are only these areas.
These approaches are the most significant in terms of the needs of modern business.
Let's look at this slide.
So, the first task that is usually solved.
Again, I want to say that the order in which it is listed is not important here.
The tasks themselves are important, which we will talk about.
Because for each organization, one or another approach is important,
because everywhere there are weak points, weak places.
So, we usually start with selecting employees and distributing them to work.
A person comes to work in an organization.
This organization already exists.
Some principles have already developed in this organization, some points.
It has its own ethics, its own corporate culture.
If this is a giving organization, then a person comes to work.
Therefore, this organization is created for some goals, for some tasks.
And it is created in the way that its owner has.
As for this selection, it is natural that it is necessary to develop assessment tools.
The assessment tools of an employee are needed in order to assess his ability,
assess his competence, conduct his attestation and, accordingly,
make a certain career trajectory.
How can an employee advance further in this organization?
What are his career prospects?
What are his career tasks?
What goals can he have in this organization?
In addition to the fact that, of course, he performs the functionality that is assigned to him,
according to the vacancy that he occupies.
In addition, the theory of organizational behavior should take care of the validity of the tools
that are used to solve these tasks.
A large number of tests have been developed today, which we have already talked about.
But these tests, which were developed during and after the Second World War,
were characterized by the fact that they were tested on a huge number of people.
Millions of people took these tests.
Modern tests are developed, unfortunately, very quickly,
and the issue of their adaptation is not paid enough attention.
In this regard, there is a problem of how valid these tests are.
Unfortunately, very often, a lot of attention is paid to these tests,
and it is believed that these tests allow a person to get all the information that he hides
or that he does not want to demonstrate.
And, of course, if we choose from such parcels,
then we will have our own attitude to the results that we receive.
In order not to make a mistake, in order not to miss a really necessary person
who will be useful in our work, it is necessary to ask the question of validity.
No matter how understandable, pleasant and obvious the test is,
the main task is not in this, but in the fact that it is really valid,
that it is reliable and that it is tested on a large number of people,
that it really solves the tasks that have been created and meets the requirements that are presented to it.
The next task that is solved in the same area is the professional analysis.
A person comes with certain knowledge and corresponds to a certain profession.
He can correspond to it successfully, he can correspond to it unsuccessfully.
He may require additional knowledge, and therefore the question arises
whether we should pre-educate a person, or we should re-educate him,
or a person can correspond to another professional area,
whether in our organization or not.
But here it is necessary to conduct an analysis of how much a person meets the professional requirements
that are presented to him at his new workplace.
At the same time, the development and application of the personnel selection program
becomes of great importance in this respect.
In large modern companies, they have long moved away from the situation
that they take a person from the street and then try to teach him.
Now the company is interested in hiring experts,
in this regard, there are various kinds of contracts with universities,
corporate universities are being created, business centers are being created,
corporate educational centers are being created,
which solve the task of assigning the employee the necessary knowledge,
training and development of the necessary competencies,
which will be useful for solving the tasks that will be presented to him.
At the same time, the task of optimizing the placement of the personnel becomes of great importance.
We have already talked about the fact that modern organizations are not a rigid structure
that will exist for decades.
Modern organizations, whether they are theoretical or matric,
very often create working groups to solve a particular task.
They are called in different ways, working group, project group,
design group, development group, temporary group.
This is a group of employees, a group of departments,
which are created specifically to solve a particular task.
Very often, people are selected for the solution of a particular task.
And then the task arises, the question arises, here the task is solved.
How optimal are these employees for working in this organization?
Should they be fired or should they be transferred to another field of activity?
How will they be able to solve certain tasks?
This is a problem of optimization.
We have already invested funds in these specialists.
We have already provided them with work and training.
Therefore, now the task arises for these employees to be optimal
in terms of the tasks that are created by the organization.
Pay attention, it is the organization, because the organization has a priority
in the face of the needs and needs of the employees.
At the same time, it is necessary to solve the task of forming a personnel reserve.
The fact is that if an employee has worked in an organization for a long time,
he already knows its corporate culture, its tasks.
He already knows and accepts the psychological climate,
the psychological norms, the psychological background that arises in him.
In this regard, the problem arises that the promotion of this employee
becomes a bearer of corporate standards.
He has gone from a manager to a senior manager,
and now he can already be a manager.
Now he is in a state of training, guidance, assessment,
and the formation of work for the new employees.
These are the so-called bearers of organizational experience,
and this experience is very expensive.
This is the area of tasks that is solved in terms of selecting employees
and their distribution to work in terms of organizational behavior theory.
The next area is very important, which we have already mentioned several times today.
It is training and development of the staff.
Indeed, tasks are constantly changing, requirements are constantly changing,
innovations are entering our lives.
Therefore, we, having employees who occupy their workplaces,
must pay attention to their development and training.
But this is, of course, investment.
Moreover, investment is not small.
If we look at the modern educational service market,
there are a large number of providers that offer different trainings,
different training programs.
They are of different cost, they have different prices,
but at the same time they have different reputations.
Therefore, the problem arises with which providers the contracts are concluded,
with which providers to communicate reliably.
Therefore, it is necessary to determine, first of all, the need for development.
Again, we should not put out the current fire.
If it suddenly became clear to us that we do not have enough specialists with the necessary knowledge,
then it is pointless to solve the problem right now.
This problem could have been foreseen,
because it was possible to send employees to improve their qualifications in advance,
without interruption from production, in a certain order,
so that when new tasks arise, we already have trained employees.
Business always works on foreseeing the situation.
If you can foresee it successfully, you can successfully get dividends, results,
bypass competitors and take the leading positions in the niche that is relevant today.
Therefore, to determine the need for training is not an easy task,
which is done by specialists in the theory of organizational behavior,
because, again, the task is risky.
After all, such specialists may be needed, and they may not be needed.
Again, we need analytics, again, we need deep knowledge and analysis of the market in which we function.
After we have determined the need for training,
it is necessary to compose, approve and agree on the training program.
Providers have typical training programs.
We work in a specific company, in a specific organization,
and therefore it is very important for us to reflect the specific goals, tasks, and needs of our organization.
We do not need to know the theory of sales at all.
Open the textbook and read.
We are interested in the theory of sales of IT equipment, if we work in the corresponding company.
We are interested in the sales of software, if we work in the corresponding company.
We are interested in the sales of cars, if we work in a car company, and so on.
Any training should be specific.
And it is for specific training that we must pay.
But here again it is necessary to take into account that in addition to the substantive training,
it is also necessary to develop management skills, managerial skills.
Because these are the skills that are associated with the successful construction of the hierarchy of our organization,
with the successful distribution of authority and responsibilities, with the ability to manage.
A competent management is a huge need and a huge need for successful business functioning.
After the needs are determined, the programs are agreed and approved,
it is necessary to assess the effectiveness of the training.
This is a very important task.
Because, indeed, you can send employees to study, you can invest in this means, but the question arises,
how effective is the training that is happening for this organization?
So that the training does not turn into training for the sake of training.
In business, it is still important to solve the tasks that are in front of the organization.
And in this regard, it is necessary to assess the effectiveness of the invested funds and the result.
If we invest funds, but the result is not there, then it makes you think,
whether we are teaching them, whether we are teaching them, and whether we are teaching them.
And just all those tasks that specialists in the theory of organization should analyze and solve.
Of course, in a significant way, these tasks are solved by HR specialists.
But we have already talked about the fact that the HR field and the theory of organization are very closely intertwined.
Maybe closer than other disciplines, which we talked about at the very beginning.
If we train an employee, then we are interested in the fact that he worked in our company.
If we invest funds in him, we are interested in the fact that the training that is taking place will benefit the company.
And therefore, we should be interested in the planning of the career of this employee in our organization.
If we train an employee, if he is successful, if he grows with the company,
then we can think about the career growth of this employee.
Maybe he will become a new manager, a new leader.
After all, the most valuable are those leaders who have passed the whole stage and the entire hierarchy,
starting from the ground and ending at the highest level.
They know many underwater stones, they know all the difficulties that arise, they know where and what to pay attention to.
Therefore, planning a career is a very significant aspect of the theory of organization.
If an employee knows that his career is planned, he will be interested in working in this particular company.
Because here he not only receives money, but also carries out personal development and professional growth.
The next aspect, which is also important in organizational behavior, is organizational development.
We have already discussed that modern organizations are very mobile.
In principle, if today the organization is static, it is doomed.
To a large extent, this is due to the state sector.
The state sector is very well bureaucratized, but that is why it often does not keep up with the realities that are happening.
It is here that different business organizations have a significant advantage in terms of the functioning of their actions in the commercial sector.
But in order to plan organizational development, it is necessary to analyze the structure of the organization.
Maybe the structure of the organization was very successful a year, two, three, five years ago,
when the organization was being created, when it actively pushed its market share and when it received the desired results.
But time has changed, and the structure remains the same.
If we take the long-term existence of the organization, we can see that the structural units are changing with great difficulty.
It is very difficult to reduce the existing ones, and even more difficult to create new ones.
This is often a problem related to large organizations, because they have a branched structure that has already recommended itself.
People are already working there.
Accordingly, if we make a reorganization or reduction, then very often we cut people alive, and the problem arises as to how optimal and useful it is.
Before taking any action, it is necessary to analyze the structure of the organization, how it meets modern needs,
how much it admires the tasks that may arise in the near future,
based on the fact that business is constantly changing and new roles and tasks are emerging.
The next question, which is related to organizational development, is how to increase the satisfaction of employees with work,
and at the same time, this must be done in order to increase the effectiveness of their work.
We have already discussed that if a person works for a long time, and this work leads to routine activities,
he loses interest, he loses attention, and a person becomes interested in further development,
further developing his career, further developing his personal growth.
Can this be done in the same organization? It can be done in another.
So, organizational development is about providing a person who has already gained experience in this organization
with an opportunity to further develop within the framework of the same organization.
After the analysis of the structure of the organization is made,
the assumption is made about the increase in the satisfaction and effectiveness of work,
the most difficult stage is coming, perhaps, the implementation of the organizational changes themselves.
Because here, if we make these changes, then we take responsibility for the structure and functioning of a successful organization,
and for the fate of those people who work in this organization and whom we change,
because we make some changes.
Changes are always perceived by a person in a painful way.
There is something that I am already used to, and I know what I can learn from it.
And little or nothing will happen now.
And these are the restrictions that are being imposed.
Maybe this is an attempt to get rid of me, to reduce me, to fire me, and so on.
Organizational development is a very significant layer of organizational behavior,
because development is usually faced with a counteraction to this development.
How to make it the most painless?
How to help this organizational change and further contribute to the effectiveness of the organization,
contribute to the development of organizational behavior in a progressive direction,
but not from the point of view of sabotage or regression.
The next big direction that can be highlighted in organizational behavior is the measurement of the work.
Business is always a matter of calculation, a matter of quantity.
And we always know how much we produce, what we produce, how we produce.
We plan, and planning is an important element, the number of staff to produce certain products,
to provide certain services, to cover the entire market sector.
In this regard, before performing certain results, before performing organizational measurements,
before performing organizational development, before performing training, selection of employees,
it is necessary to find out how and whether we consider certain results to be correct.
Naturally, when it comes to measurements, the first thing to do is to develop criteria.
What exactly are we going to measure?
The number of products, the number of dismissals, the number of missed working days,
the number of horizontal and vertical movements, the number of material stimuli,
the number of employees to be trained, and so on.
We must discuss the criteria that we will measure.
Because you can measure anything.
The question is how significant these criteria are in order to solve the development tasks
that are before our particular organization.
Again, after we have developed these criteria, it is necessary to determine whether each of these criteria is useful.
Are all these criteria really significant or are they secondary?
Naturally, it is obvious that by increasing the salary, people will be satisfied.
The whole question is what is the ratio of salary increase and labor productivity.
Let's recall the same Khatunov experiments with informal relations.
Let's recall the same Taylor with his scientific organization of labor.
Indeed, material stimulation is good to a certain extent.
But when these limits are reached,
then material stimulation no longer significantly affects any result.
Therefore, it is necessary to analyze the importance and significance of the criteria we have set.
This is another task, and the task is no less important than the development of the criteria themselves.
The next task is to assess the efficiency of the organization.
We believe that the organization is effective.
We believe that the organization covers a large segment of the market, that the profit is growing.
Is the organization effective?
Maybe it is not an intensive, but an extensive growth.
The organization really increases the profit due to quantitative indicators.
We already know and consider that quantitative indicators are good for a certain approach.
In the end, you can produce a huge number of aluminum spoons,
but, accordingly, these spoons will not be in demand.
Accordingly, the organization will lose its effectiveness.
This is a huge problem for all Soviet organizations,
which collapsed in the 1990s.
They were ineffective because they produced the product that was not in demand.
They produced products that were not in demand.
They were bought because there was nothing.
But when something else appeared, all these enterprises stopped.
Not because they became financed, but simply because their products turned out to be of no use to anyone.
They lost in the competitive struggle that began.
The next direction that must be highlighted in the system of organizational behavior
is the analysis of the quality of life of employees.
We spend at least a third of our working life.
We sleep almost as much as we do.
In this regard, the question arises.
A person comes to work only to work and run away as soon as possible,
or a person comes to work with an interest.
This is the same problem that Taylor talked about,
which was very well formulated by Mayor Ed Lisberger of the informal organization Psychological Climate.
If a person feels satisfied, if he has a well-developed motivation,
which will be clear in the theory of motivation,
then, accordingly, the productivity of labor increases.
So, accordingly, we need to think about why the productivity of individual workers increases,
what needs to be done to increase this productivity,
why the productivity of other workers decreases,
how to put an end to the decline in the productivity of labor
and, accordingly, again, to contribute to the growth of this productivity.
We need to identify factors that are associated with the satisfaction of work.
What are they?
Material stimuli, non-material stimuli, literacy, people I work with,
the style of management that is carried out,
when I am evaluated as a specialist, when my opinion is considered.
And in this case, I can agree even on a lower salary than my competitors,
but there will be a different attitude to me.
Accordingly, if we identify these factors that are associated with the inner satisfaction of labor,
then, accordingly, they will be directly associated with the growth of the efficiency of the organization's productivity.
If we conduct an analysis of the quality of working life,
then we can think about re-planning of working time.
What did, in fact, Rettlisberger and Dixon do in their experiments?
They, from a scientific point of view, simply took the working time
and, as a designer, cut it down.
When they took a rest, when they took breaks, when they took lunch.
But, in fact, if other workers from the control group came to work,
sat and worked, then the workers in the experimental group felt the attention to themselves.
And here the re-planning itself was an important element.
How much is the attitude to them?
But the very structure of the re-planning was also important.
The same lunches, the same breaks.
When they were done according to scientific indicators,
when the girls were really tired, when the number of mistakes increased,
and it was necessary to rest,
then the rest hour was much more successful and much more effective.
The next important direction, which is considered in the theory of organizational behavior,
is the analysis of the psychology of consumers.
Here is a very clear connection with the psychology of consumers of products.
Look, in fact, everything we have talked about so far
was about the effectiveness of human behavior in the organization.
The effectiveness of either the producer of the product,
or the producer of services.
But we just talked about the fact that the modern organization,
the modern paradigm of organizational behavior is associated with the fact
that the production of a product is inferior to the production of services.
The service is what I provide to others for consumption.
Therefore, it is very important for me to know the psychology of consumers.
As for the psychology of consumers,
perhaps this is really the novelty that has brought modern development of business.
This is the modern state of the theory of organizational behavior.
Because to a large extent,
we must take into account the needs of those consumers of services or products we work on.
Here it is necessary to assess the preferences of consumers.
What is their demand?
This is where we can work ahead.
And this is very important from the point of view of services.
You can offer people something.
For example, the same tour operators.
But where do these tour trips go?
To Turkey, to Egypt.
Where does the trend go?
If we assess the preferences of consumers through psychological research,
analysis, surveys,
then we can predict and determine the market segment,
which is still free,
just because no one has done it before.
At the same time, it is very important to determine the reaction of consumers to the products offered again.
Today, the industry produces a huge number of equipment,
video, computer, audio, household appliances.
They have a lot of opportunities.
But the more of these opportunities, the more difficult it is to use this equipment.
Where is the limit that will be interesting to the consumer?
You can buy a washing machine, where a huge number of functions are laid.
But at the same time, such a thick instruction is attached to this washing machine.
And let's read it, do not understand.
There are a huge number of good foreign cars today,
which have a steering memory
and a variety of automatic movements,
which the consumer does not know about.
And as he sat behind the wheel and drove, so he drives.
Both on a Land Rover and on a Zaporozhets.
But the opportunities are different.
So what is the reaction of consumers to these new opportunities?
After all, every new opportunity makes the product more expensive.
Where is this limit?
The ratio, the price, the quality.
These are the reactions of consumers that also need to be studied.
And this is the big area that is studied with marketing.
Consumer psychology is the section where the theory of organization directly correlates
with both psychology and marketing, when it comes to consumer analysis.
In marketing, the consumer is one of the leading figures.
Again, if we talk about consumers,
then we can develop a strategy for segmenting the market.
We have identified the potential needs that exist.
We have identified the ratio that exists.
And so we can offer what will really be in demand
according to the price that is now being considered for this product, for these services.
Thus, we again push the market segment,
and we are effective from the point of view of business.
You can talk a lot about consumer psychology.
This is a separate topic.
But the main thing that we need now in the theory of organization
is to understand that the psychology of consumers is a very significant feature
that must be remembered for the effectiveness of the organization's work.
Finally, when we talk about organizational behavior,
such a serious area as engineering psychology stands out.
We have already talked about this in part when we talked about the development of the theory of organizational behavior after the war.
Today, technology is becoming very complicated,
the means of production are becoming more complicated,
the machines on which a person works are becoming more complicated.
And so it is necessary to provide a comfortable working environment for a person to work with technology.
You can make a very complex machine,
but a person will not know how to use it.
A person will not know the possibilities that this machine gives him in terms of facilitating his work.
Therefore, it is necessary to think about ergonomics,
about how to arrange certain details,
how not to exaggerate the number of indicators,
signals that appear in front of a person,
what he can react to.
In this regard, it is necessary to talk about the design of the working environment,
a direct problem associated with organizational behavior.
I organize and plan connections that arise between different structures of the organization.
I organize the document turnover that will take place,
I build a hierarchy and a structure of subordination that will be in the organization,
and thereby I set the boundaries, the boundaries
on which the organizational behavior will be implemented.
Again, the next task is related to the optimization of the relationship between a person and a machine.
Today's organization is a high-tech organization.
No matter what you do, you still use a computer,
you still use a copy machine,
you use faxes, you use a modem.
And, accordingly, the effectiveness of your activity depends on the ability to use this equipment.
Instead of explaining something on the phone for a long time,
send the necessary data or requests by email,
and you will not have to explain something on the phone for an hour.
Using the opportunities that the equipment gives us, the environment,
is also very important, and this is the task that arises in engineering psychology
and which naturally determines organizational behavior.
Well, again, it is very important today, from the point of view of innovation,
from the point of view of new approaches, to use system technologies.
It is pointless today, for example, to purchase computers without licensed software.
You can have the best computers, which have old software products,
which are low-performance and deprived of all the capabilities that can be used on these computers.
In this regard, it is necessary to understand the ratio of system qualities.
I must fully use the technical means,
when I purchase some complex means.
This will not only make my life easier, it will make it easier for the functional organization,
it will increase its efficiency, it will provide it with competitive advantage in the market.
These are the tasks that are currently under the organizational behavior that it must solve.
Again, I draw your attention to the fact that these are very specific tasks,
which have specific outputs, which are measurable.
And it is precisely organizational behavior that is important,
because it allows you to solve these tasks and assess the result,
how effective is the investment of funds in those or other innovations,
which exist in a given organization, and what I get in return.
Should I invest these funds, or was it a pointless expense?
These are the tasks that are under the modern theory of organizational behavior.
And how these tasks are solved is the subject of our further discussions.
So, today we have considered the aspects of what organizational behavior is,
what interdisciplinary discipline it is, and what disciplines it is associated with.
We have considered the history of organizational behavior, how it has developed,
what level it has reached today.
We have considered the paradigm shift, we have considered the applied tasks that are being solved.
And, accordingly, now we will pay attention to how the assigned tasks are solved most optimally
from the point of view of the organization of the functioning of one or another organization.